Tenali Municipality is the local self-government in Tenali, a city in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is classified as a special grade MUNICIPALITY.

Tenali Municipality

Formation	1909
Type	Governmental organisation
Legal status	Local government
Purpose	Civic administration
Headquarters	Tenali
Location	
Tenali, Guntur district, Andhra Pradesh, India
Official language
Telugu
Chairman
Pendela Venkat Rao
Municipal Commissioner
S.Shakuntala
Main organ
Committee
Website	tenali.cdma.ap.gov.in


History
The municipality was formed in 1909 and was upgraded to special grade municipality in 1965.


Projects and infrastructure

The notable Satyanarayana VGTMUDA Lake Park (or Chinaravuru Park) on the outskirts is maintained by VGTMUDA (now CRDA). It is home to many floral varieties and was named after the former municipal chairman, Ravi Satyanarayana.

Tenali is one of the seven municipalities, along with Vijayawada and Guntur Municipal Corporations to be a part of a 15 MW waste-to-energy plant project. It is planned to be set up with the collaboration of the JITF Urban Infrastructure Limited.


Awards and achievements
In 2015, the municipality received Green Leaf Awards 2015 in the category of Best Decentralised Solid Waste Management, which was organised by NGO Sukuki Exnora. In the 6th Plasticon Awards 2012, it was awarded Green City of the country for waste segregation management.
The city is one among the 31 cities in the state to be a part of water supply and sewerage services mission known as Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). In 2015, as per the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan of the Ministry of Urban Development, Tenali Municipality was ranked 166th in the country.


TENALI

Tenali is a city in Guntur district of the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh. It is a municipality and the headquarters of Tenali mandal and Tenali revenue division.[3]
 The city is renowned for art, cultural, drama and hence, it is often referred with the nickname as Andhra Paris.[4] It is also a part of Andhra Pradesh Capital Region and the seventeenth most populous city in the state with a population of 164,937.
 The city is well connected to villages nearby and people from rural areas come to Tenali for work purposes. The city is rapidly growing and has access to Theatres, parks. It is well known for the 3 canals that pass next to each other with roads in between them.Tenali Ramakrishna One of the Eight Poets and Jester Of King Krishnadevaraya Hails from Tenali


Country	India
State	Andhra Pradesh
District	Guntur
Government
 • Type	Municipal council
 • Body	Tenali Municipality
APCRDA (urban planning agency)
 • Chairperson	Pendyala Venkat Rao,
 • MP	Galla Jayadev
 • MLA	Alapati Rajendra Prasad
 • Municipal commissioner	S.Shakuntala
Area[1]
 • Total	16.63 km2 (6.42 sq mi)
Area rank	21st
Elevation	15 m (49 ft)
Population (2011)[2]
 • Total	164,937
 • Rank	17th
 • Density	9,950/km2 (25,800/sq mi)
Languages
 • Official	Telugu
Time zone	UTC+5:30 (IST)
PIN	522201
Vehicle registration	AP-07
Lok Sabha constituency	Guntur
Assembly constituency	Tenali
Website	tenali.cdma.ap.gov.in/en
